+++
title = "FBLA"
description = "My FBLA Journey"
date = "2019-07-03"

+++

FBLA is arguably the club which has had the largest influence on shaping me into who I am today.  I have participated in the Future Business Leaders of America throughout my high school career and I have gained valubable life skills and memories that I will cherish forever.

When I first entered high school, I chose to take Intro to Computer Science as my elective, but due to a schedule conflict I ended up taking Intro to Business and Technology, and my teacher just happened to be the FBLA sponsor. I joined the club after her encouragement, but I had no idea what to expect. Although my brother had placed 1st in the state in an online test, he did not participate in any conference, so he was unable to provide much insight. My friend Adit and I attempted to compete in Computer Simulation and Game Programming, but we did not end up completing our game and that was that. I thought all hope was lost, but soon before testing began for SLC, my teacher notified me that she had signed me up for Intro to Business Procedures, as she believed that her class prepared me well for that test. I went into the test with minimal prep, only a few hours of prep the night before. Soon after I forgot about the test, and went about with my life. The day of SLC results, which I chose not to attend as I was not presenting, my friend out of the blue told me that I had placed 4th and made it to nationals, which I had not expected at all. The funny thing was that the only freshman that had qualified were me and Adit, who we failed to even finish our entry for the event we did together. It turns out that I scored a 64 on the test. Going into nationals, Adit and I didn't really know anyone else as we were the youngest kids there and relatively unfamiliar with the upperclassmen at that point. 

NLC was held in the beautiful city of Anaheim in California. The day we arrived, we had to wait hours before our rooms were ready as we arrived early. At around 4pm, the rest of the Northview kids chose to go to Disney, which was two streets away from our hotel. However, Adit and I chose to go to downtown Disney for free instead, as the price for Disney was around $80 for half a day. Downtown Disney was the only attraction that was within walking distance from us, so we ended up going there multiple times over the week, even watching POTC Dead Men Tell No Tales and Despicable Me 3 at the AMC there. Other than that the other highlight of the trip was going to Taco Bell for four days in a row. After a day of studying at the Georgia room, I placed 6th in the nation in my event to my surprise. 

As sophmore year rolled around, Adit and I became serious about FBLA and decided our high school goal was to attend FBLA NLC all 4 years. I chose to compete in Intro to Business, which was similar to the event from freshmen year. Another reason I chose that event was because Intro events are only open to freshmen and sophomores, which gave me an easier playing field. After much more prep than freshmen year I came first at SLC, which I yet again did not attend. NLC that year was held in Baltimore, which we took a bus to, with a stop in D.C. Baltimore was nowhere near as high end of a place as Anaheim was, but it was still a great city. Over the week, we visited the nearby river multiple times, even going paddle boating. Our Northview group even attended an Orioles game and ate at Fogo De Chao. My friends and I even visited other attractions, such as Edgar Alan Poe's grave, and an open market where we had a great lunch. The only downside to Baltimore was that it was slightly more sketch with homeless people roaming the streets at night. Two days of intense studying was enough to give me 1st place in the nation! However, NLC felt the same as the year before. All we did was tour the city for two days and study the rest.

As junior year began, Adit wanted to go to SLC. People who presented were required to attend SLC, and Adit wanted us to go, so clearly presenting was the move. After pondering over the various presentation events, we chose PSA, Public Safety Announcement. The topic for the event was, "Develop a public service announcement that explains why “Soft Skills” in the workplace are important to employers in your community." For our presentation we decided to interview two business leaders, and subsequently interviewed our principal and the HR director at our local Chick-Fil-a. After squeezing through regionals, we remade the video and perfected our presentation. Part of our prep involved practicing in front of our advisor 3 times a week the month before the competition. Going into the competition, we were quite confident that we would do well. A one round competition, our presentation went according to plan, except for a small technical issue. To my surprise, we only placed 5th, and only top 4 made nationals. My partner Adit had placed 1st in his backup objective test, but I did not place, so I began to accept that I was not going to nationals. The week after my advisor notified me that a team who had placed above me had also qualified for another event, and I had a sliver of hope. After a few weeks, no team had dropped, but I was offered a spot on a superteam. The event I chose to compete in was entrepreneurship and I was partnered with two kids from Denmark High School. 

Before NLC began the only prep I did was read a textbook that I picked up from one of my partners. At NLC, we breezed through the first round objective test after a day of studying. However, the biggest obstacle that I had faced up to that point was the case study. Before NLC, I had never done a case study ever, and my teammates had only done one, at SLC. During a case study, each team gets 20 minutes to prepare a 7 minute presentation. Having never done this before, I started from scratch. After the two days of grinding, my team felt a lot better then when we first met, but we still were not confident. The case study we faced was about a marmalade and jelly business looking to expand. While my teammates thought we did above average, I was not so convinced. After anxiously waiting for two days, I was devastated after not making it on stage. Top ten make stage, and sixteen teams made finals, which means our presentation was simply not good. Although I didn't place, this NLC was the best NLC from any of the three years I had been to at that point. While San Antonio was not as beautiful as Anaheim, the riverwalk still had an amazing vibe to it. The food however, was absolutely insane. We had breakfast tacos at La Villita, beef, cactus, beans, rice, and salad at La Jalisco, lamb burger at Yard House, patty melt at Whataburger, pulled pork at Schilo's, and countless more. Besides this, the main reason I enjoyed this NLC as much as I did was the fact that I hung out with seniors. The previous two years I only chilled with people in my grade, but this year I hung out with the three seniors who had attended the conference. Chatting with these seniors gave me an insight to senior year and other perspectives I don't experience myself. I also learned all about what state officers and national councils do, as the seniors had firsthand experience serving in them. 
